docs: move verification to tools (#1054)
oasisprotocol/docs: docs/dapp/tools/verification.md

---
description: Verifying deployed contracts
---

# Contract Verification

[Sourcify] is the preferred service for the [verification of smart
contracts][ethereum-contract-verify] deployed on Sapphire. Make sure you have
the **address of each deployed contract** available (your deployment scripts
should report those) and the **contracts JSON metadata file** generated when
compiling contracts (Hardhat stores it inside the `artifacts/build-info` folder
and names it as a 32-digit hex number). If your project contains multiple
contracts, you will need to verify each contract separately.

:::warning Contract deployment encryption

**Do not deploy your contract with an encrypted contract deployment transaction,
if you want to verify it.** For example, if your `hardhat.config.ts`
or deployment script contains `import '@oasisprotocol/sapphire-hardhat'` or
`import '@oasisprotocol/sapphire-paratime'` lines at the beginning, you should
comment those out for the deployment.

> Verification services will try to match the contract deployment transaction code
> with the one in the provided contract's metadata and since the transaction was

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Verification services will try to match the contract deployment transaction code
with the one in the provided contract's metadata. Because the transaction was
```

encrypted with an ephemeral ParaTime key, the verification service will not be
able to decrypt it. Some services may extract the contract's bytecode from the
chain directly by calling `eth_getCode` RPC, but this will not work correctly
for contracts with immutable variables.

:::

> 
> 

Reviewer: (nit) Extra whitespace?

```suggestion
```

   .json output file under `artifacts/build-info`)

   ![Sourcify: Upload metadata JSON file](../images/tools//sourcify2.png)

   :::tip Store your metadata files

   For production deployments, it is generally a good idea to **archive your
   contract metadata JSON file** since it is not only useful for the
   verification, but contains a copy of all the source files, produced bytecode,
   an ABI, compiler and other relevant contract-related settings that may be
   useful in the future. Sourcify will store the metadata file for you and will
   even make it available via IPFS, but it is still a good idea to store it
   yourself.

   :::

3. Sourcify will decode the metadata and prepare a list of included contracts on
   the right. Enter the address of the specific contract and select the "Oasis
   Sapphire" or "Oasis Sapphire Testnet" chain for Mainnet or Testnet
   accordingly. If your contract assigns any immutable variables in the
   constructor, you will also need to correctly fill those out under the "More
   Inputs (optional)" panel. Finally, click on the "Verify" button.

   ![Sourcify: Verify contract](../images/tools/sourcify3.png)

> 4. If everything goes well, you will get a *Perfect match* notice and your
>    contract is now verified. Congratulations!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. If everything goes well, you will get a *Perfect match* notice. your
   contract is now verified. Congratulations!
```
